---
layout: post
title: Satire Within the Humanities
---
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I became interested in satirical literature and its motives during a class I took my junior year of college. That class led me down a rabithole of different inquiries, but I never thought about the possibility of satirists as humanists until I started studying the digital humanities. Recently, the digital has been used to speak out for those that are mistreated or misrepresented. The pressing issue of maltreatment towards marginalized groups has become a more prevalent issue now than ever due to the fast spread of information through digital sites like Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram, however this is not the only time where messages have been widespread. The information spread is commonly labeled as ‘data,’ but does ‘data’ extend beyond the digital? I believe that the humanities isn’t defined by humanists alone, rather it is inclusive of those who utilize data to make a positive impact within society by standing up for mistreated groups. Satirists, for example, commonly create literature, propaganda, movies, and many other forms of data to push a humanist’s agenda. Therefore, digital humanists can combine their efforts with satirists to collect and study satirists’ data, while also exploring the varying ways satirists have used data over time to aid the humanities.
<br>
<br>
	&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Once the term ‘data’ has been removed from consisting only in the present digital space, the possibilities of study become greatly expanded. Travelling back to the 18th century, one can examine Daniel Defoe’s pamphlet titled “The Shortest Way With the Dissenters” as an early form of data used by the satirist to aid in the common goal of the humanities. In his pamphlet, Defoe satirizes and exposes the high churchmen by attacking and assuming the role of a hyperbolic version of them, therefore providing his audience with an insight on how the churchmen unjustly penalize and shame the dissenters. While impersonating a viscous churchman, Defoe states, “...Let the obstinate be ruled with the rod of iron” (144). Defoe’s ability to satirize the high churchmen inspired many other satirists to speak out, and influenced many current styles of protest and political propaganda. 
    <br>
	<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Much like data that is examinable and shareable in today’s society, Defoe’s pamphlet was the same during the early 18th century. His work spread rapidly and after some time, the high churchmen caught on to what he was doing and sent him to the pillory. Understanding who did and did not support him allows data analysts to discover who his audience was, and information regarding the socio-political laws and reformations of the time. By examining this early data, satirists and humanists alike can gain a deeper understanding of the beginning stages of the humanities: the motives, forms of data, regulations on freedom of speech, main contributors, and results. The question that now forms is: how can the digital be applied within the collaboration between satirists and humanists?	
<br>
<br>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;If we continue to define data as “the ‘raw and abstracted material created as part of research processes and which may be used again as the input to further research’” (Allison 1), then we may consider the latter part of that definition to be more beneficial. Adapting original material to a digital platform allows satirists and humanists to expand their research at a more efficient pace, and find linked information that they may have missed from solely reading the original pamphlet. Being able to use keyboard shortcuts such as ‘command F’ to find a specific section of the pamphlet, or having a multitude of related sources pop up through search engines allows for researchers to quickly attain new information about original sources. Not only does the digital make things faster, but it has allowed for new forms of data. Satirists have been highly creative and successful with their content. Shows such as Key and Peele, The Simpsons, and Family Guy are all considered satirist comedies that push ideals about current issues, whether that be racism, gender equality, or political issues. Most of the time, these shows use satire to push the humanitarian agenda of promoting human welfare. These modern twists can be combined with the foremost pieces of literature to expand upon the journey satirists have taken, and the influence that satirists have had on each other, as well as humanists. 
<br>
<br>
	&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Together, humanists and satirists can combine their research to develop an understanding of the separate evolutions of satire and the humanities, but also the combined journey of the two. To make this possible, the digital is used as a tool to fast-track, streamline, and expand the research process by presenting more data in a concise manner. Studying how satirical data has changed over time allows humanists to learn more about the transformation of the humanities, and aids satirists in understanding the transformations their genre has undergone through time. 
	<br>
	<br>
Works Cited
<br>
<br>
Allison, Sarah. “Other People's Data: Humanities Edition: Published in Journal of Cultural Analytics.” Journal of Cultural Analytics, Department of Languages, Literatures, and Cultures, 18 Dec. 2016, culturalanalytics.org/article/11822-other-people-s-data-humanities-edition. 
<br>
<br>
Defoe, Daniel. Shortest-Way with the Dissenters.Generic NL Freebook &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Publisher. EBSCOhost,library.emmanuel.edu:8443/login?&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;qurl=http%3a%2f%2fsearch.ebscohost.&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;com%2flogin.a	&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;spx%3fdirect%3dtrue%26db%3dnlebk%26AN%3d2008455%26site%3deds-	&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;live%26scope%3dsite. Accessed 10 Dec. 2018.
