---
layout: post
title: Understanding the Black Digital Humanities
--- 
\tMy interest in Black History sparked during my American History class in high school, where my teacher stated, “The history we have been learning and teaching for years is primarily from the perspective of white people. Does anyone know why that is, or how history could be different if we looked at it from the black perspective?” This question stuck with me through the rest of the school year and has impacted the way I viewed both history and literature. With the realization that the lens of history I had been taught was skewed towards a white imperialist perspective, I sought to understand the perspectives that I had missed. The black digital humanities interlinks the digital with blackness in order to create a space for the Black community to not only have a voice, but to also be presented with a history that connects to their side and perspective. History is often taught from the white perspective, therefore dampening the Black voice as a participant of the creation of society. Black digital humanities can be used to uncover older black texts that provide a different insight to the history that is commonly taught, and expose the racial constructs behind humanity. In Kim Gallon’s, “Making a Case for the Black Digital Humanities,” and Jessica Maria Johnson’s, “Markup Bodies: Black [Life] Studies and Slavery [Death] Studies at the Digital Crossroads,” the representation and effects of blackness in the digital is explored. 

     In light of recent events such as the murder of George Floyd and Breonna Taylor, the Black Lives Matter Movement has taken social media by storm. Black people are still trying to fight for their right to live and for their humanity as a whole to be protected. Social media sites such as Twitter and Instagram were bombarded with hashtags such as #blacklivesatter, #SayHerName, #ICantBreathe, and many more. As Kim Gallon puts it, “These hashtags reveal that black people’s humanity is tethered to a racial system that deems black people’s lives as insignificant relative to their white counterpart” (Gallon Ch. 4). In using #BlackLivesMatter, it forces viewers all over the world to witness the abuse that many minorities, such as the black community, experience all of the time, creating an unspoken acknowledgement of the discernible line between black lives and all lives. The support shown for the Black Lives Matter Movement has been overwhelming, and would not be possible without the use of the digital as a platform for spreading awareness.\   

	Currently, the field of black digital humanities is extremely small. The majority of digital humanists have predominantly explored the ways the digital has affected white humanity. It has seldom accounted for other minorities such as the black community. This leads to the idea that the black digital humanities “foregrounds the digital as a mutual host for racism and resistance” (Gallon Ch. 4). Research through data mining can present information about cases of racism within the digital system, while also discussing how to combat it. The black digital is still evolving, but to truly understand how blackness fits within digital humanities, one must go back to the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries Atlantic slave archives.\  

	During the the Atlantic Slave Trade, abolitionists recounted instances of black deaths as a way to fight for themselves. The media that was put out at the time was their form of data, and also was the first step taken by the black community to put themselves within the humanities. In “Markup Bodies: Black [Life] Studies and Slavery [Death] Studies at the Digital Crossroads,” Jessica Marie Johnson posits the idea that “Black digital practice is the revelation that black subjects have themselves taken up science, data, and coding, in other words, have commodified themselves and digitized and mediated their own black freedom dreams, in order to hack their way into systems” (Johnson).Black digital humanists have long been trying to fit themselves into the digital humanities to provide a space for the black perspective and an accurate representation of black lives throughout history. One of the biggest data projects in the black digital humanities was the Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade Database, which was supported by the W.E.B. Du Bois Institute for African and African American Research at Harvard. This project was one of the first large scale projects regarding the black digital humanities and made itself a significant presence on social media sites such as Twitter and Facebook. This led to an increase in knowledge regarding specific roles and statistics of slaves in the slave trade, and created a space for researchers to collaborate.

Furthermore, the slave trade took away the humanity of black people, therefore by researching it black digital humanists can better understand how to combat the lack of humanity. The digital humanities provides a space for researchers to combat racism and the predisposed biases that reside in these digital spaces. In uncovering these historic black texts, and providing a space for the black community, black digital humanists have been able to fight for their right to equality by refuting racism within the system, and therefore showing a new side to history and how the black community has truly shaped the Americas.  

Works Cited

Gallon, Kim. “Making a Case For the Black Digital Humanities.” Debates in the Digital Humanities, edited by Matthew Gold and Lauren Klein, University of Minnesota Press, 2016,.  

Johnson, Jessica Marie. “Markup Bodies.” Social Text, vol. 36, no. 4, 2018, pp. 57–79.,doi:10.1215/01642472-7145658. 